---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Cracking the Coding Questions
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-16
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

Everyone had their thing that they were good at whether that be music, painting, or sports. My thing was design. Designing maps for a Dungeon and Dragons campaign me and myh friends were going to embark on to a trebuchet for extra credit for my AP Physics class, I loved the thought proccess of creation. It wasn't until the age old question about "what are you going to major in college?" came up. I had thought about it for a while. "Maybe Areospace Engineering, or Rocket Scientist" I thought, "A nice new and interesting field with plenty of opportunuties." However, when it came to applying to colleges and choosing my preffered major, like some of the major things that have happened to me I decided on Computer Engineering at a whim. I cannot tell you why I am in this major or tell you what inspired me to pursue this field. Maybe it was a pent up interest in computers that subliminally made me choose it, but I can say for sure that it was one of the best desicion I have ever made.

The first day of college was pretty intimidating. Yet I can say that it the "Programming for Engineers" (EE160) that had a profound impact on my college career. I had very little programming experience in highschool. A little HTML, CSS, and some fragments of C from various interests was all that I had before the course. An new age of Enlightenment began when I started the class. Just all the new information that was being passed onto me just clicked and suddenly I have a profound new interest in all things programming. Sooner or later you join an Algorithms club even just to get better at making beautiful and efficient code and gearing my brain torwards a more algorthimic way of thinking. 

All this has led me now starting a Software Engineering class. I hope to learn more about programming and the various industrty techniques, but I know it will be just the beginning of my journey. By the time I’m done with it, I hope I’ve learned enough to be able to go toe to toe with CS students in programming readibility. But until then, life will be made by split desicions and I will float where the sea takes me.

